---
layout: post
permalink: /firstpost/
title: Community Privacy Blog
nav: true
nav_order: 1
external_source: false
content: content of the post is here??
feed_content: summary of post
date: 2025-04-17
tags: meta
categories: category1
description: kicking off our community privacy blog!
---


hey everyone!

we’re super excited to kick off the community privacy blog, an offspring of our community privacy residency. the first edition of our month-long residency in 2025 focused on designing and building privacy infrastructure in collaboration with marginalized communities. you can find more information about the residency on the homepage here.


as an extremely abbreviated recap of our residency, a group of 43 technologists, designers, cryptographers, writers, activists, and researchers (not mutually exclusive!) came together across the span of 4 weeks and jammed on various projects related to privacy for communities. our community collaborated on projects presented during demo day, hosted workshops for each other, led discussion groups and paper reading groups, and much more.


we celebrated and continue to celebrate the diversity we had across our residents, from domains of expertise to formats of work to communities that they belong to and look out for. for example, workshop topics ranged from co-design methodologies and threat modelling sessions to hands-on workshops analyzing encrypted internet traffic and mini-lectures on the math behind cryptographic primitives like FHE.


we’re also excited to share that a bunch of public projects emerged from the residency, ranging from [anonymous community coordination tools](https://pitch.com/v/anon-coordination-k6d4yx/1360025f-6fdd-4313-b348-7eaeeca1812a), research on use-cases for [collaborative and private AI model training](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zP25V5vyM7FF1PF_Icm9ROwQxvXLiFJ167KSj9SAmCk/edit?slide=id.g332a7367e5b_0_60#slide=id.g332a7367e5b_0_60]), [UX research on Shamir’s secret sharing-based account recovery](https://hackmd.io/@plaintextdesign/S1Lz7bPiJe#/), and so much more. an ongoing list of our projects and descriptions can be found [here]({{site.url}}/projects/).


at the same time, the residency community created so much that cannot possibly be captured by projects outputs and documentation alone, including small and big-group conversations, unanswered questions from those conversations, evolving dynamics observable within the physical community, and much more.


we believe some of the most important developments in technology spaces start out illegible in format, which is why writing is so important as a medium for communication. our hope is that this blog can help translate some of the more ethereal concepts that our organizers and residents have been discovering in this space. we hope you join us on this journey!


all love <3,
ying tong, riley, and janabel
the CPR co-organizers
